We also need to, wait,
no, it's built in now.
I was gonna say we need
to install readline, but
it's actually built into Node now, so
we can just import readline like this.
So we can say import readline
from 'node:readline'.
Okay, if you're looking like,
what the hell is this?
If you've never seen that before,
this is optional.
This is something new in Node.
This is basically saying, hey,
I know that Node has some
internal package called readline.
That's the one that I wanna import.
And the reason this is great is because
there might be a package you installed
called readline.
In fact, there was one.
They had to rename it
because Node made one.
So if there's an internal thing called
readline and there's also a package you
have installed called readline,
which one is it gonna import?
I don't know.
So, yeah, to get around that confusion,
you do that.
So now it will always import
the one that's internal to Node and
not some third-party
one that you installed.
So you can actually put this node prefix
on every internal module that Node
has to force it to use that one versus
trying to figure out whether it's got to
import the one that's installed with
the same name or the internal one.
Because some crazy person decided to
name their NPM package the same
name as an internal node package.
Could you imagine NPM package called FS?
Who would do that?
That's crazy.
But people do it.
So, all right, we got that.
Readline is just a way that allows us to,
I don't know,
write text in our terminal and
see text output.
That's basically it, we're gonna use that.
We already initialized this.
We're good to go.
So now we just need to make
a new readline interface.
So the way you can do that is,
I'm just gonna say readline = create,
oops, readline.createInterface, like this.
And you can say input.
And for the input, basically we're gonna
use process.stdin and then stdout.
This is just basically, How a terminal
handles input and handles output.
It's like a pipe through which it can
receive text, in which it can output text.
We're basically binding that to
the inputs and outputs here.
So input is stdin.
Why did it bring that in like that?
I didn't do process, that's right.
Process.that and
then I'll put, If I can type,
is the process.stdout, like that.
So cool, now that we have our interface.
We can start making some chat stuff.
So from there, what we wanna do is,
I'm just gonna create
a helper function that
wraps a call to the OpenAI API
to make a new message.
That way,
we don't have to write this every single
time when you wanna make a new message.
I'm just gonna create a wrapper
around that because that's
annoying to write all the time.
[LAUGH] So newNessage,
it takes a message, right?
And then from here, we're just gonna say,
response or results,
whatever you wanna call it.
This is gonna be async = await
openai.chat.completions.create, all right?
Also, because we need to pass
in the entire history for
everything, we're gonna
take the history as well.
So when we create this, we'll say model.
I'm still gonna use gpt-3.
You can literally use whatever you want.
And then I'm going to pass
in the messages here.
The messages are going to be a brand new
array of everything that came before,
so the history plus your new messages
that you pass in, like this.
New messages go on the end of the array,
not the beginning.
You would not get the results
you wanted if you did that.
All right, follow me so far?
Okay, and then yeah,
we just wanna go ahead and
just return the message object itself.
So that's what I'll do.
I'll say return results.choices[0]message.
So basically the same thing
we did in the index file,
nothing different here at this point.
But the next thing we need to do is need
to create a loop that runs constantly, so
we can keep having the conversation.
Whereas before on our previous example,
we'd ask the question, then it will stop,
the process will stop.
But we want it to keep going.
So we can keep the memory alive and
we can keep having a conversation.
So that's basically what
we need to do next.
But before we do that, I'm just
gonna create a function that formats
the user input that someone types in.
So we'll say const formatMessage.
It takes in user inputs,
which is just a string, right?
And then it's just gonna return a new
object here that has role of user and
then content of the userInput, Like that.
So if you're looking at,
what is going on here?
If this looks new to you,
this is just me doing a implicit return.
If your arrow function
only has one line of code,
you don't have to put
the return statement.
And then because I wanna return an object,
I can wrap it in a parentheses, so
therefore I return an object.
If I didn't have those parentheses, it's
thinking I'm making a function body and
I get a syntax error.
But if I put it in parentheses,
I'm saying return this object.
So it's just a little shortcut.
Cool, everybody following me there?
All right, so next thing is we just
wanna create the main chat function,
which is gonna be the thing
that houses our loop.
And this is where we try
to keep things going.
So the way that that's gonna work,
if you scroll down,
this is where we're gonna
keep our history, and
then we're gonna have this start
function here that is recursive.
And this is how we recreate a loop.
We're just gonna use recursion as
a mechanism for keeping things going, and
that's how it's gonna work.
So if you've never done recursion before,
if you've done it, like, wow,
when am I ever gonna use it?
You're gonna use it right now.
This is that one time ever in your life
that you're gonna use recursion and
it actually is beneficial.
And hopefully,
it won't crash your computer.
Well, I guess recursion never really
crashes your computer because it reaches
a call stack limit,
whereas while loop would.
So cool, okay, so let's do that.
So const chat, And
then underneath it, I'm just gonna
call it chat eventually, like that.
And then let's create our history,
which is just an empty array.
But for now ,let's prime
the system with a system message.
So I'll say role: 'system'.
Remember, this is
the origin story of the AI.
So we always gotta start off with that,
the origin story.
So role and content, and
then put whatever you want here.
I'm just gonna keep what I always put,
You are an AI assistant.
Answer questions or else.
I don't know,
whatever you want to put there [LAUGH].
You put whatever you want,
that's the beauty of it.
I wonder what that's, I don't know
what's gonna happen there, but
I kinda threatened it a little bit,
so we'll see.
I might get moderated.
All right, so that's the back story.
Let me put a y there.
And we'll make another function
here called start, Inside of chat.
And then underneath that,
I'll just kick it off by calling start.
That's the loop, right?
And then in here, what we wanna do
specifically is, we wanna go ahead and
do our readline.question.
What this is gonna do is it's gonna prompt
a question in the terminal in which you
can type something in.
So let's do that.
So I'll say rl.question.
I'll prefix the question with You.
So when we see it in a terminal,
we can see that this is our message, and
then we'll see the log for
the AI's message.
So I'll say You, takes a callback,
that's gonna be async,
and you get back the user Input here,
Like that.
And then from this, we want a way to
exit out of this when we're done, so
I'm just making a handler for that.
So if you type in the word exit,
it'll close.
That's basically it.
So what I'll say is,
if (userInput.toLowerCase=== 'exit'),
or whatever word you wanna
use to close out of this,
then you can say rl.close, and
then this just return out of this.
So this will end the session effectively,
just by typing the word exit.
And then from here, what we need to do is
we need to format that userInput because
userInput is just a string.
And we know that in
order to send a message,
it needs to be an object that has
a role and a constant property.
And we have that function called
formatMessage that does just that.
It takes a userInput and
it converts it to the appropriate thing.
So let's do that.
So I'll say, message = formatMessage,
takes in the userInput, right?
We got that?
And then from there,
what I wanna do is I want to call
the OpenAI API with the current history,
so everything that's been said thus
far plus this new message, right?
Then I wanna update my
history with the new message
that I sent plus the response
that I got back.
There's a million ways to do this,
so I'm just doing it this way.
So I'll say response = await,
what did I call it?
newMessage, await newMessage.
It takes in the current
history we have here.
It takes in the new message we wanna send,
like that.
So we get our response.
And then we wanna update our history,
so I'll say history.push.
I wanna push in first the message
that we created from the userInput,
that needs to happen first.
And then I want to push in the response
that we got back from OpenAI.
So I'm just updating our history with
that so that way when this happens again,
when we pass in this history,
it's been updated with these messages.
Which works because history is
outside of the start function.
It's in a closure, so
it never gets erased because we're
doing this inner function here.
So we got a closure there.
And then from there, obviously,
we want to log what the AI is saying.
That's the whole point.
So let's do that.
Console.log, I'm gonna add in some new
lines here so we can better see it.
If you didn't know,
backtick in means new line.
Backtick in JavaScript means
escape this character,
which means don't literally show this
character, it represents something else.
So then I'll say AI, and
then here we can put the result.
I'm actually just gonna
use backticks here.
And the response here should just be
response.content, like that, okay?
And then we need to run this again, so
we gotta call start again
right underneath it.
So that's the recursive loop.
We gotta run this again because
now we want this to run again so
we can ask another question.
If we don't do this again, we won't
get prompted to ask another question.
So we need to do that.
And then, obviously,
the initial kickoff is down here.
There's many different
ways to do recursion.
I know the official way of this pattern,
but it's just,
I call the inner recursive function.
I mean, we could have made chat recursive,
too, but
then we'd have this issue
with a history closure.
We have to put it up here somewhere,
and then probably make it an object.
It gets weird.
So there we go.
Okay, cool, and then lastly,
you can just put a log at the bottom
before you call chat just so
we know that, hey, it's ready to go.
And you can hit exit when you're done.
Otherwise you're just looking
at a blank terminal, and
you won't know if it's working or not.
Okay, let's try to run it, maybe it
works the first time, maybe it doesn't.
So I'll say node chat.js.
And you can see right here,
it says Chatbot initialized.
Type 'exit' in the chat.
That's a good sign.
And then now you can see it's
prompting me to add something.
So let's test this out.
Hi, my name is Scott.
I hit Enter, and it says, Hello, Scott!
It's nice to meet you.
How can I assist you today?
You can see now it's prompting me again.
And I'll just attest it.
What is my name?
Your name is Scott.
Okay, it remembers, we're good now.
So now we have an AI chat
interface that remembers things,
whereas before, that was not the case.
So this is a quick little ChatGPT in your
terminal if you wanted to do something..
I actually made something like this
similarly, and I use it over ChatGPT,
cuz I just prefer using the terminal
than I did going to the Web.
This is just better for me,
in my opinion, so cool.
And then if you wanna exit, you can
just type exit and then you're out.
So yeah, obviously,
ChatGPT will be a little more nuanced
as far as its features and stuff.
But the main part of being able to chat to
it, I mean, this is essentially it, right?
And I think I'm gonna add some new lines
here, so it's, right, not next to it.
But yeah, that's basically, and
then eventually, like I said,
you will hit this point depending
on what model you choose,
of it just won't remember anymore and
you'll have to handle that.
So that's a constraint.
And then, well, I'll talk about some more
of the constraints in the next point, but
just wanna make sure I handled any
questions here about this interface.
I think first time I did this, I thought,
wow, this is not that hard,
[LAUGH] this makes sense.
Because doing something like
this before GPT came along,
forget about it,
this was not gonna happen.
Can you imagine that company, Intercom,
having something like this
when they first came out?
It would be insane.
It would be unheard of.
But it was just really hard to do
that back then, if not impossible.
And now,
anyone with an API key can do this in,
I don't know, 47 lines of code.
[LAUGH] It's kinda nuts.
And you don't need to know anything
about linear algebra or matrix math,
what you don't want to know about.
So I thought that was pretty intense.
>> What is the token count for
this chat so far, 4,000?
>> The token count for this chat?
Well, I know they're asking the limit for
this model, but I don't know the exact
limit of the 3.5 Turbo model, but
I think it's less than 6k for sure.
If you wanted to see how
much you've spent so
far, inside of newMessage,
you can just console.log results.usage.
And you can look at it that way and
then do math on every single message and
you'll see how much your tokens were.
So if I did this, hello,
that's how many tokens..
We're using the prompt,
completion, stuff like that.
And then I'm like, ok, make me some food.
Yeah, and it can't, obviously,
it doesn't know how to make food, but
we can teach it that.
So yeah, you can just do that, and
then over time, you just collect this and
do math, and you can figure out what your
cost is over the span of a conversation.
>> The OpenAI dashboard will give you
a pretty real-time breakdown of your
spend, too.
>> There you go, OpenAI dashboard,
very good for that.
But you shouldn't treat this as, if you
ever did, I don't know, smart contracts,
you gotta think about the cost of gas and
slippage.
It's not that mindset.
That is the difference between a dollar or
a few thousands of dollars.
This is the difference between a penny and
a fraction of a penny.
So it's not something
you should think about.
None of this stuff gets expensive
until you reach critical scale.
And for this case, I wouldn't imagine
someone spending more than maybe
a few cents today, and
that's what if they went nuts.
So should be good.